README.md, before:

# Exploring Industrial Pollution in the US
### Subtitle

## I. Introduction

In 1969, the burning of the Cuyahoga River in Cleveland, Ohio became a national symbol for the public’s outcry against industrial pollution. The public had been expressing increasing concern throughout the 1950s and 1960s, and the US reached a turning point when the Environmental Protection Agency was established in 1970. The EPA began to monitor and enforce the increasing number of environmental laws passed by Congress aimed at reducing industrial pollution.

Today there are two main programs in place that monitor industrial pollution in the United States. The Superfund program is responsible for the investigation and clean-up of contaminated sites left over from decades of unregulated industrial manufacturing and other activities. The most highly contaminated sites which require longer-term remedial action take precedence and are placed on the National Priority List (NPL). The EPA also monitors active facilities all over the country that are currently releasing toxic chemicals into our air, water, and land through the Toxic Release Inventory (TRI).

It is easy enough to obtain basic location information for both Superfund sites and TRI facilities, but an investigation into toxic pollution quickly reveals more complexity beyond locations on a map. This mapping project is a directed narrative told through a storytelling map format that begins by visualizing the general location and distribution of Superfund sites and TRI reporting facilities, and guides the user through several interesting case studies augmented with additional data sources that explore the wider reach and effects of these sites. The user will gain a better understanding of industrial pollution and the threat it poses to both humans and the environment. As efforts are underway to [roll back]( https://www.vox.com/energy-and-environment/2018/1/26/16936104/epa-trump-toxic-air-pollution) environmental regulations and budget cuts are increasing the [backlog]( https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2020-01-04/backlog-of-toxic-superfund-clean-ups-grows-under-trump) of Superfund remediation projects, this map will emphasize the importance of a framework that holds industry accountable for the toxic pollution it imposes upon communities. 

## II. Methodology

### A. Data

### B. Medium for delivery

This map is presented as a storytelling map accessible across desktop and larger mobile devices. The basic technology stack includes HTML, CSS, JS, and Leaflet, delivered in a Bootstrap framework. _Storytelling library?_

### C. Application layout

### D. Thematic representation

### E. User interaction

### F. Aesthetics and design considerations

## II. Conclusion

Commit message:

create NEW notebooks to wrangle new superfund site data and explore new superfund site data

README.md, after:

# Exploring Industrial Pollution in the US
### Subtitle

## I. Introduction

In 1969, the burning of the Cuyahoga River in Cleveland, Ohio became a national symbol for the public’s outcry against industrial pollution. The public had been expressing increasing concern throughout the 1950s and 1960s, and the US reached a turning point when the Environmental Protection Agency was established in 1970. The EPA began to monitor and enforce the increasing number of environmental laws passed by Congress aimed at reducing industrial pollution.

Today there are two main programs in place that monitor industrial pollution in the United States. The Superfund program is responsible for the investigation and clean-up of contaminated sites left over from decades of unregulated industrial manufacturing and other activities. The most highly contaminated sites which require longer-term remedial action take precedence and are placed on the National Priority List (NPL). The EPA also monitors active facilities all over the country that are currently releasing toxic chemicals into our air, water, and land through the Toxic Release Inventory (TRI).

It is easy enough to obtain basic location information for both Superfund sites and TRI facilities, but an investigation into toxic pollution quickly reveals more complexity beyond locations on a map. This mapping project is a directed narrative told through a storytelling map format that begins by visualizing the general location and distribution of Superfund sites and TRI reporting facilities, and guides the user through several interesting case studies augmented with additional data sources that explore the wider reach and effects of these sites. The user will gain a better understanding of industrial pollution and the threat it poses to both humans and the environment. As efforts are underway to [roll back](https://www.vox.com/energy-and-environment/2018/1/26/16936104/epa-trump-toxic-air-pollution) environmental regulations and budget cuts are increasing the [backlog]( https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2020-01-04/backlog-of-toxic-superfund-clean-ups-grows-under-trump) of Superfund remediation projects, this map will emphasize the importance of a framework that regulates and holds industry accountable for the toxic pollution it imposes upon communities.

## II. Methodology

### A. Data

Superfund site locations were initially obtained as a csv file from the EPA's [Superfund Enterprise Management System](https://www.epa.gov/enviro/sems-search) Database. Additional data on each site, including the site's Hazard Ranking System (HRS) score, was obtained through an [advanced search](https://cumulis.epa.gov/supercpad/cursites/srchsites.cfm), downloaded as a csv file, and joined to the initial site locations using python in a Jupyter notebook.

[Toxic Release Inventory](https://www.epa.gov/toxics-release-inventory-tri-program/tri-basic-data-files-calendar-years-1987-2018) data for 2018 was downloaded in an excel workbook. Data is reported as one record for each chemical released per reporting facility. I used python in a jupyter notebook to wrangle data into one record per reporting facility, with information on total amounts released per facility.

### B. Medium for delivery

This map will be presented as a storytelling map accessible across desktop and larger mobile devices. The basic technology stack includes HTML, CSS, JS, and Leaflet, delivered in a Bootstrap framework. _Storytelling library?_

### C. Application layout

### D. Thematic representation

### E. User interaction

### F. Aesthetics and design considerations

## II. Conclusion
